European Commission regulation 1107
stroke 2006 concerning the rights of
disabled persons and persons with
reduced mobility when travelling by air
came into force in 2006 one part of this
regulation requires air carriers to make
all reasonable efforts to arrange
seating to meet the needs of individuals
with disability or reduced mobility on
request and subject to safety
requirements and availability some
children with moderate or severe
disability have not been able to fly
without additional seating support the
Marron travel chair can make this
possible the travel chair is a unique
product provides firm postural support
for moderately or severely disabled
children between the ages of three to
eleven years depending on weight and
height that fits into a standard airline
seat it's been developed with the
support of the UK's Civil Aviation
Authority and European Aviation Safety
Agency and holds a European Aviation
Safety Agency approval for use on board
aircraft alone you must be gdn let me
show you the atropos air travel chair
can be used on all types of UK
registered aircraft including
helicopters the travel chair must be
installed in the seat row directly in
front of a bulkhead or in any position
whether a no passengers seated directly
behind the travel chair should be fitted
to a window seat or if traveling on a
wide-body jet any of the middle seats of
the center block must not be fitted in
the row leading to an emergency exit the
airline will have procedures in their
operations manuals defining specific
seating requirements and restrictions
to prepare the travel chair for
passenger use removed from its
protective storage bag and place it on
the aircraft seat selected unclip the
security strap and open up the chair
pass the securing straps of the travel
chair around the back of the host seat
and connect ensure that any excess strap
is secured in the clip provided for some
aircraft seats it may be easier to
connect the securing strap first and
then slip it over the back of the host
seat and tighten always ensure that the
securing buckle is to one side the
travel chair is now secured before you
seat the child make sure the headrest is
in the uppermost position Travel chair
comes with an optional disposable seat
cover to use simply secure around the
handle of the travel chair and then lay
the cover neatly down the seat this
useful pocket can be used for storing
wet wipes or a favorite toy raise the
crotch strap and pad and pass these
through the hole in the seat cover
unclip the to shoulder buckles which can
be found just below the headrest unclip
one side buckle and ensure that the
crotch strap is brought forward the
travel chair is now ready for the child
the child must be placed into the travel
chair and made secure by the parents or
carers next fasten the aircraft seat
belt and adjust as required if it's to
be used bring the crotch strap up and
over the aircraft seat belt and close
using the velcro next bring the headrest
down to shoulder level and clip shoulder
buckles adjusting if necessary clip the
side buckle and adjust accordingly the
drop of the non-slip foot plate can be
altered by loosening or tightening the
straps as shown to ensure the correct
height and angle for providing adequate
support for the child's legs and feet
the ankle huggers are an optional
feature and provide additional foot
support Julianne is now comfortable
secure and ready for takeoff journey in
another children like him may not want
to be in the travel chair for the whole
flight but the travel chair must remain
attached to the aircraft seat at all
times so that the child can be easily
secured in the event of unexpected
turbulence in the unlikely event of an
emergency evacuation the following
procedure must be adopted
fasten the ankle buckles if used
unfasten all travel chair buckles and
crotch strap unfasten the aircraft seat
belt and lift out the child following
instructions from the cabin crew
remember the travel chair must stay on
board the aircraft the travel chair
offers passengers like Julian the
opportunity to travel by aircraft in a
seat that has been specifically designed
to meet their specific needs
furthermore for those children that
require pump feeding the travel chair
allows the carrier to administer this
facility with ease and discretion by
using an aircraft seat the travel chair
revolutionizes the way disabled children
fly allowing them to sit with their
family in a secure and comfortable seat
please note that the instructions shown
on this DVD must be used in conjunction
with the information leaflet provided
with the travel chair cabin crew will be
provided with more information in the
standard operating procedures section of
their operations manual to learn more
about the travel chair please visit the
Maru website
you